Hey, it’s Marie Forleo, and you are watching
MarieTV, the place to be to create a business
and life you love.
You know, one of the things I love about what
I get to do is the fact that I meet amazing
people.
And my guest today has an uncanny ability
to turn impossible dreams into reality, and
I invited her here to share her perspective
on how you can do the same.
Regena Thomashauer, AKA Mama Gena, is a revolution:
an icon, teacher, author, mother, and founder
and CEO of the School of Womanly Arts.
She believes that women are the greatest untapped
natural resource on the planet and teaches
them to turn on their innate feminine power
to create a life they love.
The School for Womanly Arts began in Thomashauer’s
living room in 1998 and has since grown into
a thriving, global movement with thousands
of graduates around the world.
Thomashauer has authored 3 popular books and
has appeared on NBC’s Today show, Late Night
with Conan O’Brien, 20/20, and more.
Her programs have been profiled in the New
York Times, Elle, New York Magazine, among
others.
She lives and works in New York City, raising
her daughter, and working with a devoted team
to run and grow her school.
Regena.
Marie.
Thank you so much for being here.
No, don't thank me.
I am so thrilled…
I am so thrilled to be here.
I’m thrilled and I’m moved.
I’m moved and thrilled.
That goes… it’s a mutual admiration society.
So one of the reasons that I wanted to have
you on the show is there are so many times
when I get to meet folks that watch MarieTV,
I work with our B-Schoolers, and I’m talking
with people who are working to bring their
dreams to life and I use you as an example
so many times because you’re such a beautiful
demonstration of someone who had what could
be considered a little bit of an out there
dream and you made it real and you continue
to make it real each and every day.
So tell us about how you started the School
for Womanly Arts and really what that journey
was like.
Wow.
I would have to say that the School of Womanly
Arts started with just a big, fat desire and
it was my desire really to connect with my
own voice and my own passion and to live that
in my lifetime.
And what kind of galvanized the dream was
after I had Maggie, who is now 17, I was sitting
there with my little newborn not knowing what
to do, but feeling so much of a sense of responsibility.
I felt responsible to the girls of today,
to the women of tomorrow, to what was I doing
to make sure that the world could understand
and respect and welcome who and what a woman
is in all of her dazzling brilliance, dazzling
darkness, her every facet of woman.
Because the world doesn't know how to handle
who and what women are.
And so I thought, “I’ve gotta do something
because I wanna make space for this girl to
fly.”
So I thought, “I know what I’ll do, I’m
Mama.
See, baby, I’m Mama.
Hm, ok, I’ll be Mama Gena.”
And did that just come to you like a download
or were you kind of playing around?
Because you have this character named Mama
Gena and I know you as Regena and you are
always you wherever you go, but there is a
persona that comes.
Yeah, when I’m teaching.
And thank God because I’m so shy actually
that I’m grateful for the inspiration to
create the persona so that I could be as effective
in the world as I long to be, and Mama Gena
gives me that courage.
But how it happened was really accidental.
I’d been teaching classes in relationships
and communications to men and women for many
years and then I just wanted to do something
for women only and really it was just a lark.
I thought it was funny.
I thought it was kind of… like Mama Gena,
I don't know, it sounded like something that
should be on Broadway.
And so I thought, “I could do that, because
I’m an actor, I’m a singer, educator,
writer.
I can be Mama Gena.
That’ll work.
And so I will write this character into existence
and she will assist me at awakening the culture
in the way I most long to.”
So I wrote my first class and it was… took
place in my living room with a handful of
women.
Like, how many?
It was like 6 or 8 women.
Ok, I’m gonna pause you there because this
is really important.
I often talk with a lot of folks who get very
excited about sharing a message with the world,
whether they’re women or men, and many of
their aspirations include speaking to tens
of thousands or millions or billions of people.
And I always try and tell them, that’s awesome.
We don't want to squash that dream, but some
of my most successful friends, and successful
in the sense that they live their work, they
do their work consistently, they’re happy
doing their work, generally speaking.
We all have those creative struggles, but
they’re really in it, most of them started
with, like, a few people in their living room
and they stairstep built it.
And I think when people have impossible crazy
dreams, it’s important to hear these origin
stories because you can look from the outside
and think, “Oh, they just went there.
Now they’re speaking to tens of thousands
and hundreds of thousands.”
So that’s why I wanted to really just fine
tune that point for folks.
The… the hugely important thing is to live
your dream and to live your passion.
Just like you did when you were a little kid
and you would play let’s pretend.
That energy is the creative force that makes
everything happen, makes magic happen, changes
worlds, changes people’s lives, that creativity
that lives inside each one of us.
I think each person has a legend that wants
to live.
Men, women, children, there’s something,
there’s a seed inside of each of us that
we were born to see through to some kind of
fruition in our lifetime, to actually let
that creative side of us exist.
So I started with a handful of women and now
my classes are hundreds of women and I’ve
impacted tens of thousands, maybe with my
books millions of women, but it all started
with a desire.
Yes.
When we talk about making these dreams come
to life, so many folks I get to interact with
get caught up on the how.
And you and I are friends so you know, I’m
a very linear person and one of the things
that I love about you and I admire about your
work is that you help us step out of such
a linear framework of thinking and keep us
in that creative space of play.
And any time I interact with you personally,
I come to one of your seminars, I read something
that you wrote, I can always feel myself coming
back to this space of creative magic.
So I wonder if you could tell us a little
bit more about why it’s useful at times,
right?
Not always.
At times to just set aside the how.
Well, the how won’t fuel the dream.
It won’t make the dream bigger, it actually
makes it shrink.
Because even though we all have to do so many
things, you know, have to…
Make the plans.
Right.
Take the steps.
The to do list, the steps.
Those things are key, they’re important.
No dreams get launched without a good, solid
foundation.
If you spend all of your time in the how and
the how is so seductive.
It says, “Oh, there’s always more things
to do.
Come.
There’s always more ways you can work.
Come to me.
Come to me.”
But it’s never going to lead to that kind
of regenerating, throbbing enthusiasm that
it requires to build a business or to take
an idea and actually turn it into a reality.
There’s nothing creative that happens there.
So the idea is to connect with a desire.
And to connect with a desire, it’s like
that line in the Sound of Music, a dream that
will need all the love you can give every
day of your life.
You know, sing with me.
Oh, I have no idea.
You don't know this song?
You know I’d love to sing with you if I
knew it.
But the point is very true, because as a person
who is very, very accustomed to doing, when
I find myself grinding…
Yes.
...and when I find myself getting to that
point where it feels like all the creativity
is gone, where I don't have another idea to
put out there, I don't know even why I’m
continuing to do it, you’re one of the people
that pops in my head.
Because I remember that I have to get reconnected
to having fun and pleasure and desire and
I love that that’s what you take a stand
for in your work.
Yeah, because… it’s hugely important because
a desire, a dream, it’s the interface between
you and that which is greater than you.
It’s a way that you connect with your divinity.
So… and that requires some tending and some
fueling.
And pleasure is what fuels our ability to
continually create and regenerate and stay
in the heartbeat of why we started on this
crazy adventure, this magnificent adventure
in the first place.
So pleasure is a key ingredient.
The problem is that that’s the last thing
you wanna do when you have a to do list that’s
huge.
And you have deadlines out the wazoo and you
keep creating more deadlines.
It sounds like the craziest thing in the world.
You know, I know sometimes I have, even in
my own mind, resisted you, you know, even
in my own head going like, “No!
I can’t take a break now.
I, really, I have 15 more things to get done
by tomorrow morning.”
However, when I’m wise enough to surrender
to that because the higher part of me knows
it’s actually where it’s all gonna come
from, there’s magic.
So what are some practical things that we
can all do from a pleasure, desire, staying
connected to that fun place that anyone could
practice?
Well, there’s something… the way I run
my company, just out of sheer necessity.
Believe me, if I could make those people work
all the time, I would, honey.
But, it… no one can live without the pleasure
and the joy and the enthusiasm.
So the way I start every staff meeting is
with something that… at the school there’s
all of these practices and tools and arts.
So this is so handy and it’s so useful and
I recommend it to everyone.
Start every meeting with a brag, a gratitude,
and a desire.
When you do all three, it’s called holy
trinity.
What it does is it grounds you in the inspirational
qualities that you possess, which then you
have so much to give.
So we’re gonna practice it right now.
I love it.
You wanna…?
Do it.
Yeah.
Ok, so I’m gonna brag.
And by the way, before you brag, as your bragging
is kind of bubbling up inside, one of the
other reasons I love this, especially for
women, although it affects men too, it affects
kids.
We’re so trained out of tooting our own
horn.
Yes.
We’re so trained that we cannot…
Hello.
...celebrate anything that…
...we accomplish or that, you know, we’re
braggartly if we talk about things that we
do.
And that just seems like such a sickness.
Well, it’s a difference between boasting,
meaning fluffing yourself up to make you even
more wonderful than you are, and absolutely
truing up to what is.
Truing up to the incredible, inspiring being,
the infinite being, that every human being
is.
So bragging just kind of puts you in touch
with that.
And then gratitude, hello, is just…
That’s just the magical elixir of everything.
And then desire, it’s important to key into
your desire because that’s your connection
to your divine, so source energy.
So I’ll give you a brag.
Alright, I brag that…
I brag our friendship.
I brag that I'm here with you right now.
I brag that I’ve known you since you had
your little flip cam in your hand.
I brag how our sisterhood and how each of
us stands so fiercely for one another.
I brag that.
I am proud of that, on both ends.
I… my gratitude.
I am so grateful to do the work that I do
in the world that keeps me connected to myself
and able to express my passions in such a
range of ways.
I feel so grateful for that.
And my desire is that this episode reach everyone
who has a dream, an impossible dream, and
that on seeing this episode they feel even
more inspired to connect and live that passion
in their lifetimes.
Well done.
I like that and I can absolutely see how if
every meeting started with folks going around
and doing the holy trinity, it would shift
some things in a major way.
Come on.
Ok.
Bring it.
Hit me.
Alright, so I brag that I have the most amazing
crew in the whole world.
Oh, yeah.
You do.
So I know you guys kind of see them on MarieTV.
I have to tell you, they are better in real
life than you could ever imagine possible
and I am so, so, so appreciative.
So that’s gonna spill into my gratitude.
Can it be the same or does it have to be different?
No, it can be all… yeah.
I can bubble it in together?
Ok, so I’m also…
But one thing about a brag would be that an
I… you would have to add on, “And I created
that.
I made that happen.”
I created them.
And I pulled all these amazing people together.
Because you did.
Because you guys are all freakin’ awesome.
Ok, going on to my gratitude.
I’m so, so grateful for this building, this
company, what we’re able to do each week
for our audience, which if I didn't have anyone
watching I’d be no… there’d be nobody
to make videos for.
So I’m grateful for you.
And then in terms of a desire, my desire is
that I continue to find new and fun ways to
inspire my work so that I can keep doing this,
because it’s the most joyful thing I’ve
ever experienced.
Yeah.
Awesome.
You did so good.
Thank you.
So well bragged.
Regena, thank you so much for coming on MarieTV
today.
This has been beautiful and I’m sure it
is not the last time that we’ll see you
on our show.
I’m so grateful to be here, girl, and I’m
so proud of you.
Thank you.
Now Regena and I have a challenge for you.
So, have you ever had a somewhat impossible
dream that you nurtured into fruition, against
all odds?
Or is there a desire inside of you right now
that really needs a little more air time?
We would love to hear about it.
So as always, the best discussions happen
after the episode over at MarieForleo.com,
so go there and leave a comment now.
Did you like this video?
If so, subscribe to our channel and, of course,
we’d be so appreciative if you shared it
with all of your friends.
And if you want even more great resources
to create a business and life that you love,
plus some personal insights from me that I
only talk about in email, come on over to
MarieForleo.com and sign up for email updates.
Stay on your game and keep going for your
dreams because the world needs that special
gift that only you have.
Thank you so much for watching and we’ll
catch you next time
on MarieTV.